RHDEVDOCS-4485 migration guide - odo v2 to v3 (#51479)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/odo-command-changes.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/developer_cli_odo/odo-migration-guide.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="odo-command-changes_{context}"]

= Commands added, modified or removed in v3

> The following table contains a list of `odo` commands that have been added, modified or removed in v3. An *X* indicates that the command is not present in that version.

Reviewer: Missing comma: `...command that have been added, modified, or removed in v3.`

Author: Yes (I wish Vale would catch this)

> [cols="2,2,3",options="header"]

Reviewer: Great job with this table :) 

I'm really impressed with how well it's documented, considering how gigantic it is!

| `catalog list service`| |In a future release, this command will be replaced with `odo list services`
| `catalog list component`| `registry`|
| `catalog search service`| *X*|
| `catalog search component`| `registry --filter`|
| `config set`| *X*|
| `config unset`| *X*|
| `config view`| *X*|
| `debug info`| *X*| Debug mode is started with the `odo dev --debug` command, which blocks the terminal. The application can be running in inner-loop mode only if `odo dev` is running in the terminal.
| `debug port-forward`| *X*| Port forwarding is automatically configured when you run `odo dev --debug`, if the endpoint is defined in the devfile.
| `env set`| *X*|
| `env uset`| *X*|
| `env view`| *X*|
| `preference set`| `preference set`|
| `preference unset`| `preference unset`|
| `preference view`| `preference view`|
| `project create`| `create namespace` + 
`create project`|
| `project delete`| `delete namespace` + 
`delete project`|
| `project get`| *X*|
| `project list`| `list namespace` + 
`list project`|
| `project set`| `set namespace` + 
`set project`|
| `registry add`| `preference add registry`|
| `registry delete`| `preference remove registry`|
| `registry list`| `preference view`|

> | `registry update`| *X* | Use `preference remove registry` and `preference add registry` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `registry update`| *X* | Use `preference remove registry` and `preference add registry` to update the registry.
```

| `service create` + 
`service delete` + 
`service describe` + 
`service list` | *X*|
| `storage create` + 
`storage delete` + 
`storage list` | *X*|
| `test`| |This command will be restored in a future release
| `url create` + 
`url delete` + 
`url list`| *X*| `odo dev` automatically sets port forwarding between the container and localhost. If you require `Ingress` or `Route` resources for inner-loop development, you explicitly define them in the Devfile as Kubernetes components.
| `build-images`| `build-images`|
| `deploy`| `deploy`|
| `login`| `login`|
| `logout`| `logout`|
| `create` +  
`component create`| `init`|
| `delete` + 
`component delete`| `delete component`|
| `describe` + 
`component describe`| `describe component`|
| `exec` + 
`component exec`| *X*|
| `link` + 
`component link`| `add binding list` + 
`component list` |
| `list`| `log` + 
`component log`|
| `logs`| `push` + 

> `component push` |In v3, the `odo dev` command behaves more like `watch` in v2. There is an option to disable automatic reloads when a file changes (`--no-watch`). In future, there will be an option to trigger _sync_ explicitly when the `--no-watch` option is used.

Reviewer 2: The commands here seems misplaced.

| `status` + 
`component status`| *X*|
| `unlink` + 
`component unlink`| `remove binding`|
| `watch` + 

> `component watch`| `dev`|

Reviewer 2: This should include the comment about `odo dev`.
>In v3, the `odo dev` command behaves more like `watch` in v2. There is an option to disable automatic reloads when a file changes (`--no-watch`). In future, there will be an option to trigger _sync_ explicitly when the `--no-watch` option is used.
